Agriculture - Farmers Welfare Department
Concerned Department:
Agriculture - Farmers Welfare Department
Concerned District:
Organisation Name:
Department
Scheme Details:
Scheme Title/Name:
Seed Multiplication Scheme of Paddy, Millets, Pulses, Oilseeds and Cotton
Associated Scheme:
Sponsered By:
State
Funding Pattern:
Premium ranges from Re.1 /- to Rs. 3 /- per Kg of seeds

Premium for the production of Foundation class @ 7.5% to 30% over and above Local Market Rate and Certified class @ 5% to 20% over and above Local Market Rate per Kg of seed based on the oil seed
Beneficiaries:
Farmers
Types of Benefits:
Subsidy
Eligibility criteria:
Income:
Age From:
Age To:
Community:
How To avail:
The application is to be submitted to

Assistant Agricultural officer at the Village Level 

Agricultural Officer / Deputy Agricultural Officer at the Block Level 

The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block Level 

The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District Level
Validity of the Scheme:
Introduced On:
Description:
All farmers who produce and supply the seeds to the Department of Agriculture on Contract basis are eligible to 
enroll and register their seed farms under this programme. 
Separate allocation will be provided to SC/ST seed growers. 
Preference will be given to farm All farmers who produce and 
supply the seeds to the Department of Agriculture on Contract basis are eligible to enroll and register their seed farms under this programme. 

Separate allocation will be provided to SC/ST seed growers. 

Preference will be given to farm women groups, Farmers 
Interest Groups.

The farmer so desirous of enrolling himself / herself will 
be given a training by the authorities concerned at the 
beginning of each year 

The required source seed will be supplied by the Department 
of Agriculture through the Agricultural Extension Centres 
on payment of the Cost of the seed as per the sale price fixed 
by the Department. 

The seeds supplied will have the Certification Tag issued by 
the Department of Seed Certification
The farmers should follow the guidelines given by the field level 
functionaries / Seed Certification officers to maintain the Quality. 

The seed Farms should be registered by the Seed Producer viz., the Assistant Director of Agriculture of the respective Blocks on payment of the requisite fees

On satisfactorily fulfillment of the field standard during the entire period of the crop, the produce will be declared fit at the field level. This produce is called the Field Run Produce


This produce has to satisfy the standards of physical/ genetic purity, moisture levels and germination percentage as prescribed in the Certification standards 

The produce after inspection by the Seed Certification Officer and with due permission will be moved to the nearest Seed Processing Unit owned by the Department of Agriculture

The farmer should bear the transport cost for the transport of the seed to the Seed Processing Unit. 

After moving the seed to the Seed Processing Unit, initially the farmer will be paid 90% of the Minimum Support Price as declared by the Civil Supplies Department The seeds will be processed in the Seed Processing Unit in the presence of the Seed Certification Officer. 

On completion of the processing, sample will be drawn by the Seed Certification Officer to test the quality. 

This sample will be sent to the concerned Seed Testing Lab for 
testing. The test results will be declared on completion of the testing at the Seed Testing Labs 

If the seed lot fails to confirm the standards, the farmer has to 
repay the entire advance paid to him / her in one installment 
before getting back the stock. 

On declaration of the results by the authorities as standard the 
produce will be considered as Seed material 
Now the farmer is entitled for full payment of the cost for seeds as per the Procurement price fixed for each crop and its class. The farmer will be paid the difference of cost between the full cost eligible and the amount of advance paid as 90%.
Scheme Type:
na
Uploaded File:
-